---
layout: post
title:  "Why write a blog ? "
date:   2016-09-06 18:41:29
categories: opinion blog
comments: True
icon : ""
---

I wrote a short introductory post when I started this site about my motivation for setting up the blog. I said that I wanted to learn more and have an impetus to study a particular topic in more depth, which is all true. I didn't  really specify my reasons for writing a blog specifically rather than just having a personal site or public Github account, regular contributions to either of which would surely fulfil my requirements to learn more about something development related through project work.

I love to read , it's something that I've loved to do since I was young. One of my earliest memories is of my dad taking me to the local public library because I'd read all the books in my classroom library ( I was four ). There is obliviously an implicit connection between reading and writing , consuming literature and creating it. When I was in my teens , deciding what to do after I finished school a lot of people asked me if I was considering pursuing writing, journalism or something similar because I was known to be a book enthusiast .I probably nodded and smiled and said something placating like ' Haven't made any finally decisions yet , keeping my options open '. But I never honestly considered it. I had written a lot up to the that point, more than your average sixteen year old. I never enjoyed reading anything I wrote, I found it cringy and of a poor standard. I had read so much, that I could almost instantly recognise good writing, a style that I would like . But I didn't have it. I was embarrassed by my words , disheartened by the gap in what I read , what I could articulate and what I could express in words on a page. Mostly I struggled with the feeling that my writing wasn't an accurate representation of me, my personality , my ideas and mostly my abilities.

Eventually, when I went to university I chose to study Computer Science (unrelated, I know, but my interests and abilities have always been extremely eclectic) and the amount of time I spent writing was reduced to almost nothing, my hand cramping when I took an exam because I no longer physically wrote anything. I continued to read, the novels and historical books that had dominated my youth were somewhat replaced by online news articles , blog posts and short stories. I still consume text like no-one I know, menus , signs , ads, the Pat Ingoldsby poem on the wall of my local Starbucks.

In retrospect , it's easy to see why I never progressed in any significant way with my writing. Writing , like anything requires time , patience and extreme dedication and I didn't give it that. And that is what I intend to do now. I created this site about a year ago and since then I haven't contributed to it in any kind of meaningful way, beyond small styling and layout changes or the odd blog post. I still find the articles hard to read, an untrue representation of me.

This is all to say that from this point forward I'm committing to write at least one blog post a month be it an article, essay , tutorial or opinion piece. That the reason for writing this blog to publish on the internet for everyone who wants to can see , is a way to keep myself accountable to my commitment to become a better writer. That will hopefully allow me to progress to a stage where I can read something I wrote and feel feel a connection to it or ,at the very least, not cringe at it's existence.