---
layout: post
title:  "Why Computer Science"
date:   2017-01-24 16:14:17
categories: opinion blog study
comments: True
icon : ""
---

I graduated from Trinity College Dublin in December 2015, after four years, with a degree in Computer Science. This post outlines the reasons I chose to study Computer Science and my reflections having completed university.

I grew up , studied and attended university in Dubin, Ireland. The university system in Ireland is much more rigid than in the US, in terms of course (major) choice and flexibity. A student in the Irish education system hoping to attend a university of the state must chose their major before leaving school. Courses are ranked by the student in order of their preference before a set deadline in the students' final year of study. Courses are then assigned to a student based on these preferences and the results of the exam taken by all school leavers at the end of their studies. Students wishing to change major after the courses are assigned must wait to the following year and apply again. (There is some flexibility if the student wishes to change into a course in the university that they were accepted into after commencing at the university - most universities try to accomodate students where possible in this regard.)

I chose Computer Science at Trinity College Dublin as my first preference in my final year of school. At the time the requirements for entry to the course were not extremely high escpecially given that TCD in the highest ranked school in Ireland. In the seven years since I made that choice things have changed dramatically and it is now very competitive and difficult to be accepted to the same program. While there are many factors determining the requirements for entry into a course, the availabilty of places and cost of entry mostly follow simple supply and demand rules. In the seven years since I applied the number of places available on the course hasn't changed in any significant way but Computer Science and software development are increasingly becoming a larger part of our day-to-day life and continuing  references in popular culture have made the studies somewhat more 'mainstream' and applications have increased substainially. 

When I was about sixteen I began to seriously consider what I wanted to do after I left school. I don't subscribe to the idea of chosing what you are going to do for the rest of your life at such a young age. I don't really feel that's what college is about. Nevertheless it is a sizable commitment of years of your life, of work and of money and so not a decision to be taken lightly. I never seriously considered not going to college. In Ireland , especially in the area I grew up college is somewhat of a progression or extension of school. It's what everyone does and not going is socially akin to not finishing highschool in most countries. (This is a somewhat recent trend in Ireland's demographic - neither of my parents or any of their siblings went to college). 

I chose Computer Science mostly because of my analtical nature and my enjoyment of solving problems. I also like to build things and the idea of making something out of nothing really appealed to me. Coupled with my love of technology , I thought it would be a good fit. I began in September 2011. I found it difficult from the start. It was quite a shock for me, I'd always excelled without a great deal of effort in school. Computer science is hard, I learned that early. I wasn't the only one, about 25% of our class had dropped out by the end of the first year.

I had hardly any experience in Software Developement before starting (in retrospect probably not the best idea). I had jailbroken my ipod touch numerous times in the days when it was nessecary to do it in a shell and had played around with some basic static websites, using just markup, that was it. It was nothing like I had ever done in school and it was quite the learning curve that first year. A significant portion of my classmates had alot more experience than I did in the industry and I struggled being somewhat behind among my peers for the first time. I've heard it said the study of Computer Science  is something that normally requires a euriqa moment, you don't get it till you do. I would tend to agree with this, a different way of thinking , of approaching a problem, is needed . After you learn this, adapt to it, it's still hard but in a less frustrating way. 

I settled in the second year, grew more comfortable in college both academically and in other aspects of college life. The year passed without regard.For my third year , I chose to participate in the Erasmus study aboard program. I would be spending the entirity of my third university year in INSA Lyon , France. I was the only person in my course that chose to do this and I would know no-one heading to France. As it turns out that decision was one of the best of my life, having resulted in some of my best experiences, most valued friendships and adding flames to the fire that is my love of travel.

Again I found the acedemic side of this new experience taxing. All of courses would be done through French and as my french was pretty basic , I had to learn fast. Overall though, I liked the French university's system of teaching better than Trinity's in most regards. The funding issues that continue to plague Trinity didn't seem to have affected INSA (the global economic crisis was still prevelent at this time). In France we were doing sixteen hours of labs and tutorials and around 16 more hours of lectures. At home I was barely doing fourteen hours a week of both. The Irish system involved much more hands-off self-regulated learning. The entirity of the French lab work involved pair-programming, something that I cringed at the thought I before I experienced it but ended up getting so much out of. I'd actually be really interested in getting some experience with this in a work-place environment. 

I returned to Trinity for my fourth and final university year. I had courses from September to January. After Christmas I participated in a six month internship (which I will discuss in a later post) finishing in August. I graduated in December. Looking back, I'm pretty happy that I chose to study Computer Science and I'm glad the my education progressed the way it did, I feel I got a lot out of it. I'm currently working as a software developer and i'm pretty happy with what I'm doing. I'm not sure if this is something that I'll still be doing in twenty years time but I still feel like that's something I don't have to have figured out at this stage.

I think most people get a lot out of university if they approach it the right way. In a lot of ways it's benefical, especially in regards to personal growth. I also think that theres alot things that people go to university for that don't really need a degree, Software Engineering being one of them. In fact, the requirement of having a degree would somewhat discourage me from applying to a company if I saw it on a job application (which I sometimes do). I think it signifies a company culture that really doesn't fit with my outlook on work and life. If someone who wanted to become a developer were to ask my opinion, I would say if you want to experience a different aspect of life , of growth and are thinking of persuing a career in technology at some point in the future ,then go to college. If you want to train to become a developer, it's most likely not the best option for you.








